docs/guide/deployment.md, before:

# Deployment

## General Guidelines

If you are using Vue CLI along with a backend framework that handles static assets as part of its deployment, all you need to do is making sure Vue CLI generates the built files in the correct location, and then follow the deployment instruction of your backend framework.

If you are developing your frontend app separately from your backend - i.e. your backend exposes an API for your frontend to talk to, then your frontend is essentially a purely static app. You can deploy the built content in the `dist` directory to any static file server, but make sure to set the correct [baseUrl](../config/#baseurl).

### Previewing Locally

The `dist` directory is meant to be served by an HTTP server, so it will not work if you open `dist/index.html` directly over `file://` protocol. The easiest way to preview your production build locally is using a Node.js static file server, for example [serve](https://github.com/zeit/serve):

``` bash
npm install -g serve
# -s flag means serve it in Single-Page Application mode
# which deals with the routing problem below
serve -s dist
```

### Routing with `history.pushState`

If you are using Vue Router in `history` mode, a simple static file server will fail. For example, if you used Vue Router with a route for `/todos/42`, the dev server has been configured to respond to `localhost:3000/todos/42` properly, but a simple static server serving a production build will respond with a 404 instead.

To fix that, you will need to configure your production server to fallback to `index.html` for any requests that do not match a static file. The Vue Router docs provides [configuration instructions for common server setups](https://router.vuejs.org/guide/essentials/history-mode.html).

### CORS

If your static frontend is deployed to a different domain from your backend API, you will need to properly configure [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

### PWA

If you are using the PWA plugin, your app must be served over HTTPS so that [Service Worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API) can be properly registered.

## Platform Guides

### GitHub Pages

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### GitLab Pages

As described by [GitLab Pages documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/), everything happens with a `.gitlab-ci.yml` file placed in the root of your repository. This working example will get you started:

```yaml
# .gitlab-ci.yml file to be placed in the root of your repository

pages: # the job must be named pages
  image: node:latest
  stage: deploy
  script:
    - npm ci
    - npm run build
    - mv public public-vue # GitLab Pages hooks on the public folder
    - mv dist public # rename the dist folder (result of npm run build)
  artifacts:
    paths:
      - public # artifact path must be /public for GitLab Pages to pick it up
  only:
    - master
```

Typically, your static website will be hosted on https://yourUserName.gitlab.io/yourProjectName, so you will also want to create an initial `vue.config.js` file to [update the `BASE_URL`](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/docs/config#baseurl) value to match:

```javascript
// vue.config.js file to be place in the root of your repository
// make sure you update `yourProjectName` with the name of your GitLab project

module.exports = {
  baseUrl: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'
    ? '/yourProjectName/'
    : '/'
}
```

Please read through the docs on [GitLab Pages domains](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/getting_started_part_one.html#gitlab-pages-domain) for more info about the URL where your project website will be hosted. Be aware you can also [use a custom domain](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/getting_started_part_three.html#adding-your-custom-domain-to-gitlab-pages).

Commit both the `.gitlab-ci.yml` and `vue.config.js` files before pushing to your repository. A GitLab CI pipeline will be triggered: when successful, visit your project's `Settings > Pages` to see your website link, and click on it.

### Netlify

> TODO | Open to contribution.

Also checkout [vue-cli-plugin-netlify-lambda](https://github.com/netlify/vue-cli-plugin-netlify-lambda).

### Amazon S3

See [vue-cli-plugin-s3-deploy](https://github.com/multiplegeorges/vue-cli-plugin-s3-deploy).

### Azure

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Firebase

Create a new Firebase project on your [Firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com). Please refer to this [documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/setup) on how to setup your project.

Make sure you have installed [firebase-tools](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-tools) globally:

```
npm install -g firebase-tools
```

From the root of your project, initialize `firebase` using the command:

```
firebase init
```

Firebase will ask some questions on how to setup your project.

- Choose which Firebase CLI features you want to setup your project. Make sure to select `hosting`.
- Select the default Firebase project for your project.
- Set your `public` directory to `dist` (or where your build's output is) which will be uploaded to Firebase Hosting.

```javascript
// firebase.json

{
  "hosting": {
    "public": "app"
  }
}
```

- Select `yes` to configure your project as a single-page app. This will create an `index.html` and on your `dist` folder and configure your `hosting` information.

```javascript
// firebase.json

{
  "hosting": {
    "rewrites": [
      {
        "source": "**",
        "destination": "/index.html"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Run `npm run build` to build your project.

To deploy your project on Firebase Hosting, run the command:

```
firebase deploy --only hosting
```

If you want other Firebase CLI features you use on your project to be deployed, run `firebase deploy` without the `--only` option.

You can now access your project on `https://<YOUR-PROJECT-ID>.firebaseapp.com`.

Please refer on the [Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting/deploying) for more details.

### Now

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Stdlib

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Heroku

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Surge

> TODO | Open to contribution.

Commit message:

update docs on how to deploy project to surge.sh (#1864)
pretty straightforward!

docs/guide/deployment.md, after:

# Deployment

## General Guidelines

If you are using Vue CLI along with a backend framework that handles static assets as part of its deployment, all you need to do is making sure Vue CLI generates the built files in the correct location, and then follow the deployment instruction of your backend framework.

If you are developing your frontend app separately from your backend - i.e. your backend exposes an API for your frontend to talk to, then your frontend is essentially a purely static app. You can deploy the built content in the `dist` directory to any static file server, but make sure to set the correct [baseUrl](../config/#baseurl).

### Previewing Locally

The `dist` directory is meant to be served by an HTTP server, so it will not work if you open `dist/index.html` directly over `file://` protocol. The easiest way to preview your production build locally is using a Node.js static file server, for example [serve](https://github.com/zeit/serve):

``` bash
npm install -g serve
# -s flag means serve it in Single-Page Application mode
# which deals with the routing problem below
serve -s dist
```

### Routing with `history.pushState`

If you are using Vue Router in `history` mode, a simple static file server will fail. For example, if you used Vue Router with a route for `/todos/42`, the dev server has been configured to respond to `localhost:3000/todos/42` properly, but a simple static server serving a production build will respond with a 404 instead.

To fix that, you will need to configure your production server to fallback to `index.html` for any requests that do not match a static file. The Vue Router docs provides [configuration instructions for common server setups](https://router.vuejs.org/guide/essentials/history-mode.html).

### CORS

If your static frontend is deployed to a different domain from your backend API, you will need to properly configure [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

### PWA

If you are using the PWA plugin, your app must be served over HTTPS so that [Service Worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API) can be properly registered.

## Platform Guides

### GitHub Pages

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### GitLab Pages

As described by [GitLab Pages documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/), everything happens with a `.gitlab-ci.yml` file placed in the root of your repository. This working example will get you started:

```yaml
# .gitlab-ci.yml file to be placed in the root of your repository

pages: # the job must be named pages
  image: node:latest
  stage: deploy
  script:
    - npm ci
    - npm run build
    - mv public public-vue # GitLab Pages hooks on the public folder
    - mv dist public # rename the dist folder (result of npm run build)
  artifacts:
    paths:
      - public # artifact path must be /public for GitLab Pages to pick it up
  only:
    - master
```

Typically, your static website will be hosted on https://yourUserName.gitlab.io/yourProjectName, so you will also want to create an initial `vue.config.js` file to [update the `BASE_URL`](https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/tree/dev/docs/config#baseurl) value to match:

```javascript
// vue.config.js file to be place in the root of your repository
// make sure you update `yourProjectName` with the name of your GitLab project

module.exports = {
  baseUrl: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'
    ? '/yourProjectName/'
    : '/'
}
```

Please read through the docs on [GitLab Pages domains](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/getting_started_part_one.html#gitlab-pages-domain) for more info about the URL where your project website will be hosted. Be aware you can also [use a custom domain](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/getting_started_part_three.html#adding-your-custom-domain-to-gitlab-pages).

Commit both the `.gitlab-ci.yml` and `vue.config.js` files before pushing to your repository. A GitLab CI pipeline will be triggered: when successful, visit your project's `Settings > Pages` to see your website link, and click on it.

### Netlify

> TODO | Open to contribution.

Also checkout [vue-cli-plugin-netlify-lambda](https://github.com/netlify/vue-cli-plugin-netlify-lambda).

### Amazon S3

See [vue-cli-plugin-s3-deploy](https://github.com/multiplegeorges/vue-cli-plugin-s3-deploy).

### Azure

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Firebase

Create a new Firebase project on your [Firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com). Please refer to this [documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/setup) on how to setup your project.

Make sure you have installed [firebase-tools](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-tools) globally:

```
npm install -g firebase-tools
```

From the root of your project, initialize `firebase` using the command:

```
firebase init
```

Firebase will ask some questions on how to setup your project.

- Choose which Firebase CLI features you want to setup your project. Make sure to select `hosting`.
- Select the default Firebase project for your project.
- Set your `public` directory to `dist` (or where your build's output is) which will be uploaded to Firebase Hosting.

```javascript
// firebase.json

{
  "hosting": {
    "public": "app"
  }
}
```

- Select `yes` to configure your project as a single-page app. This will create an `index.html` and on your `dist` folder and configure your `hosting` information.

```javascript
// firebase.json

{
  "hosting": {
    "rewrites": [
      {
        "source": "**",
        "destination": "/index.html"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Run `npm run build` to build your project.

To deploy your project on Firebase Hosting, run the command:

```
firebase deploy --only hosting
```

If you want other Firebase CLI features you use on your project to be deployed, run `firebase deploy` without the `--only` option.

You can now access your project on `https://<YOUR-PROJECT-ID>.firebaseapp.com`.

Please refer on the [Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting/deploying) for more details.

### Now

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Stdlib

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Heroku

> TODO | Open to contribution.

### Surge

To deploy with [Surge](http://surge.sh/) the steps are very straightforward. 

First you would need to build your project by running `npm run build`. And if you haven't installed Surge's command line tool, you can simply do so by running the command:

```
npm install --global surge
```

Then cd into the `dist/` folder of your project and then run `surge` and follow the screen prompt. It will ask you to set up email and password if it is the first time you are using Surge. Confirm the project folder and type in your preferred domain and watch your project being deployed such as below.

```   
            project: /Users/user/Documents/myawesomeproject/dist/
         domain: myawesomeproject.surge.sh
         upload: [====================] 100% eta: 0.0s (31 files, 494256 bytes)
            CDN: [====================] 100%
             IP: **.**.***.***

   Success! - Published to myawesomeproject.surge.sh
```

Verify your project is successfully published by Surge by visiting `myawesomeproject.surge.sh`, vola! For more setup details such as custom domains, you can visit [Surge's help page](https://surge.sh/help/).
